a very curious characteristic of human
beings is their desire for being liked
in the early days of mankind
the acceptance by the tribe was
necessary to stay alive but in the
current age
aside from abiding the law we don't need
people's validation in order to survive
sure the approval of other people is
enjoyable and can be a pathway towards
opportunities on a personal as well as a
professional level but spending our
energy on seeking approval also comes
with a price if there's anything that
holds us back from being authentic it's
when we design our lives with the
purpose of appeasing others we can see
this in many ways shapes and forms but
the more we value opinions the less we
value our own inherent worth regardless
of what our consumerist society wants us
to believe self-worth is really
something that we decide for ourselves
if we decide that our worth depends on
how others perceive us then this is what
we sign up for our sense of well-being
becomes dependent on what other people
think and because this is not up to us
it's a slavish way to live in the end we
aren't the ones who decide what our
quote unquote masters think about us and
when they despite our efforts don't like
us anymore our self-worth is destroyed
moreover by seeking validation we lead
lives that are not around when we are
sensitive to peer pressure we may engage
in activities that we in reality don't
really like this may be listening to
certain music using substances and even
supporting certain political or
religious views just so our environment
approves of us sure by doing this we
become part of the herd but we also
aren't being authentic because we hide
who we truly are
aren't we deceiving ourselves this way
aren't we lying to our environment at
the end of the day a person that lives
authentically and doesn't care about
what others think gains more respect and
someone whose goal is to appease this is
because people are often attracted
to those that are unapologetically
themselves and ironically these
individuals usually don't care too much
about the fact that people are so
attracted to them that's the paradox
that what clings repels that what moves
freely attracts if we learn a self
validation we show the world that we
have Worth we begin to trust in
ourselves and our judgement we discover
that we don't need other people to
decide whether or not we have a value
and we also become capable of giving in
genuine approval to others not based on
groupthink and consensus but based on
our own hearts and minds we can say no
when everyone says yes not because we
want to be special or rebellious but
simply because we stay true to ourselves
we can allow ourselves to feel hurt
without the need to prove the validity
of our suffering to others we can walk
away and mean it because we know that we
don't need them to be whole when we stop
seeking approval we make our true colors
come to the surface and the approval
that comes at us naturally simply for
what we manifest by just being who we
are is directed at us and not at this
mask that makes our true selves
invisible isn't it much better to be
appreciated by one person because of who
we are than to be loved by thousands
because of who they want us to be as Jim
Carrey once said and I quote your need
for acceptance can make you invisible in
this world don't let anything stand in
the way of the light that shines through
this form thank you for watching
[Music]